In Course 9, we're going to
discuss the NTFS file system.
An overview of what we'll
be covering in this course.
We're going to talk about
the data structures that make up
the NTFS file system like
the Volume Boot Record and
the Master File Table.
We're also going to take a
look at the attributes that
make up file entries in
the Master File Table.
We're going to cover NTFS
date and time format.
We're going to talk
about file creation,
what happens when
we create a file in
the NTFS file system and what
happens when we delete it.
We're also going to talk about
the recovery
limitations with NTFS.
Course 9, Module 1,
we're going to talk
about the history
of the NTFS file system.
NTFS was originally a joint
collaboration with IBM.
It is compliant with what
they call POSIX requirements.
POSIX requires a
certain amount of
functionality from
the file system,
like the ability for a file
to have more than one name
or a hard link and also
case-sensitive file naming.
Neither FAT nor HPFS
supports these features,
which is another reason why
a new file system was
required for Windows NT.
NTFS does support
both hard links and
case-sensitive naming.
If you want to run in a
POSIX compliant environment,
you would need at least one
NTFS disk partition
on your computer.
The first release was Windows NT,
and that was Version
1.0 Windows NT 3.1.
Then we went to Version
1.2 in Windows NT 3.51.
These two versions offered
some administrative controls as
well as that POSIX requirements.
We could also have
compressed files and
User Access Control,
user access control.
Each user had their
own recycle bin
and each user could
have their own account.
That is something we
did not have with FAT.
The modern version of
Windows NTFS that you're
going to see is Version 3.1,
and that's with all installations
of Windows XP and above.
What we had here that we
didn't have before was we now
have rollback and more
robust logging features,
so we can recover our data and
rollback our file system
to a stable state.
It can also handle
larger volumes.
When we got to Windows 8,
we had some faster file recovery
and we could use
some cross-platform.
We had those built-in
applications that we could use
cross-platform on cell
phones and other devices.
We went to Windows 10,
we got a lot of extended
logging features,
a lot of rollback features,
and a lot of logging,
which is helpful to us
as forensic examiners.
Almost on any modern
version of Windows,
Windows Vista and above,
are going to require an NTFS
formatted volume to
be installed on.
When talking about NTFS,
we need to remember,
everything in NTFS
is stored as a file.
You'll hear that a lot
throughout this course.
When we talk about offsets,
we're talking about
offsets relative
to the start of the data
structure we're examining.
If we're looking at
the Volume Boot Record and
we're talking about Offset 03,
that would be from the start
of the Volume Boot Record,
not from the start of
the physical disk.
The entire logical volume is
now considered a data area.
Unlike FAT where we had a
system area and a data area,
in NTFS, the entire
logical volume
is considered the data area.
We have something on NTFS
called the Master File Table.
The Master File
Table is an index of
every file on the entire
volume, including itself.
The Master File Table will
include the NTFS system files,
and those will begin
with a dollar sign,
and those are considered
metadata files.
These files get created
when the NTFS volume
is formatted.
Metadata files.
These are information about
other files, external metadata.
All the files are going
to have a metadata file.
The first 26 records
in the Master File Table
are going to be these
metadata system
files because even
though everything is
considered the data area,
the file system still
needs to operate.
So you're going to need
to have system files.
Records 12-23 are reserved
for future use and Records
24 through 26 are used for
transaction logs
and error recovery.
The first user-created file will
usually be somewhere
around Record 35.
When we talk about these
metadata files, in this table,
you can see the very first entry
in the Master File Table will be
zero and that will be
a record for the Master
File Table itself.
The next entry, Entry 1,
in the Master File Table
will be the MFT Mirror,
which is a backup of
the first few entries of
the Master File Table
for recovery purposes.
Then you can see the third
entry will be $Volume.
We can see Entry number 5
is represented by a dot.
This is the root directory,
the Root File Name Index.
These would be a listing
of files that are in
the root of the directory,
the root of the volume.
Seven will be $Boot,
and this is going to
be our Boot Sector.
Then we see Entry 11 is extended.
These are going to contain
our extended attributes.
I've talked about the ones
that are highlighted.
If you can see, there
were several others.
The ones that are not
highlighted, like LogFile,
simply keeps track of logging
for rollback purposes.
Bitmap. We talked about
bitmaps when we talked about
the exFAT file system.
This is what tracks
cluster allocation.
BadClus obviously keeps track
of the bad clusters
on the volume.
We have Secure and UpCase.
Secure keeps track
of security features
and UpCase keeps track
of upper and lowercase.
This is for case-specific
file naming.
It'll convert upper to lowercase,
so we can search the volume,
but also allows
case-specific file naming.
We have one called Quota.
Quotas can be put on
how much data certain
users are allowed to use.
ObjectID.
Each object does have
an identifier that is
recorded in ObjectID.
Then we have Reparse,
which would be a reparse point.
The ones we highlighted are
the ones we're going to talk
about throughout this course.
I just wanted to make you
aware that there are 26 of
them and these are our
system metadata files.
They are the first 26 entries
in the Master File Table.
In our next module,
we're going to talk about
the NTFS Volume Boot
Record and discuss
the information contained in
the boot record and
how we would read it.